.nh
.TH "CITADEL" "1" "Jul 2026" "AceTeam" "Citadel CLI Manual"

.SH NAME
citadel-mesh-chat - Send a one-shot chat request to a model on another node


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcitadel mesh chat [prompt] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Discovers models across the mesh, selects one by --node and/or --model, and
sends a single OpenAI chat-completion request to that node's engine over the
mesh, printing the assistant's reply.

.PP
This is a minimal, non-interactive surface (the interactive REPL is Phase 1,
#575). Selection rules:
  - If --model uniquely identifies one served model, --node is optional.
  - If a model is served on multiple nodes, use --node (hostname or IP) to pick.
  - If a node serves exactly one model, --model is optional.

.PP
REACHABILITY: discovery works today, but routing the chat request requires the
target node to expose a chat endpoint on the mesh. On embedded-tsnet nodes the
engine's host port is NOT reachable over the mesh (only ports citadel binds a VPN
listener for answer), and no node gateway yet proxies /v1/chat/completions to the
local engine, so this command currently fails with connection-refused against
such nodes. Adding the node-side gateway chat route is tracked in #581.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for chat

.PP
\fB--model\fP=""
	Model to chat with

.PP
\fB--node\fP=""
	Target node hostname or mesh IP

.PP
\fB--timeout\fP=120
	Chat generation timeout in seconds


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--debug\fP[=false]
	Enable debug output

.PP
\fB--no-auto-update\fP[=false]
	Disable automatic update checks and installs for this run (or set CITADEL_NO_AUTO_UPDATE=1)

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	Disable colorized output

.PP
\fB--port\fP=8080
	Peer status endpoint port to probe over the mesh


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
  # Chat with a uniquely-named model anywhere on the mesh
  citadel mesh chat --model Qwen/Qwen2.5-7B "Explain WireGuard in one line"

  # Pick a specific node when a model is served in several places
  citadel mesh chat --node gpu-node-1 --model llama3 "hello"

  # Node serves a single model
  citadel mesh chat --node gpu-node-1 "hello"
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcitadel-mesh(1)\fP
