.nh
.TH "CITADEL" "1" "Jul 2026" "AceTeam" "Citadel CLI Manual"

.SH NAME
citadel-serve - Start the HTTPS gateway for this node (standalone)


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcitadel serve [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Starts an HTTPS reverse proxy that consolidates all Citadel node services
behind a single TLS endpoint.

.PP
RECOMMENDED: Use 'citadel work' instead, which runs the gateway in-process
alongside the worker by default. This avoids competing tsnet instances and
is the preferred way to expose the gateway on the VPN.

.PP
This standalone command is still useful when you need to run the gateway
separately from the worker (e.g., on a different machine or for testing).

.PP
The gateway proxies to the local status server (started by 'citadel work
--status-port'), terminal server, and optionally a websockify instance
for VNC WebSocket access.

.PP
Routes:
  /health          -> Node health check
  /status          -> Full node status
  /ping            -> Lightweight ping
  /services        -> List registered services
  /api/screenshot       -> Desktop screenshot (auth required)
  /api/actions          -> Desktop input actions (auth required)
  /ssh/authorized-keys  -> SSH key deployment (VPN or auth required)
  /vnc/...              -> VNC WebSocket proxy (requires websockify on --vnc-port)
  /terminal/...    -> Terminal WebSocket server

.PP
TLS certificates are self-signed and generated automatically on first run.
They are stored in the Citadel config directory (typically ~/.citadel-cli/tls/).

.PP
If the node is connected to the AceTeam Network, the VPN IP (100.64.x.x) is
included as a Subject Alternative Name in the certificate.

.PP
Note: Headscale (nexus.aceteam.ai) does not currently support the Tailscale
certificate provisioning API, so automatic Let's Encrypt certs via the VPN
are not available. The self-signed certificate approach is the default.
When Headscale adds cert support, the gateway can be upgraded to use
tsnet.ListenTLS for automatic public certs.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--bind\fP="0.0.0.0"
	Bind address for the gateway

.PP
\fB--cert-dir\fP=""
	Custom directory for TLS certificates

.PP
\fB--embedding-port\fP=8102
	Port of the local TEI embedding service (/v1/embeddings upstream)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for serve

.PP
\fB--port\fP=8443
	HTTPS gateway port

.PP
\fB--status-port\fP=8080
	Port of the local status server (from 'citadel work --status-port')

.PP
\fB--terminal-port\fP=7860
	Port of the local terminal server

.PP
\fB--vnc-port\fP=6080
	Port of websockify (VNC WebSocket bridge)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--debug\fP[=false]
	Enable debug output

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	Disable colorized output


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
  # PREFERRED: Run gateway in-process with the worker (enabled by default)
  citadel work

  # Start standalone gateway with default settings (HTTPS on port 8443)
  citadel serve

  # Start on a custom port
  citadel serve --port 443

  # Custom upstream ports
  citadel serve --status-port 9090

  # Combine with the work command (in separate terminals):
  # Terminal 1: citadel work --status-port 8080
  # Terminal 2: citadel serve
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcitadel(1)\fP
