.nh
.TH "CITADEL" "1" "Jul 2026" "AceTeam" "Citadel CLI Manual"

.SH NAME
citadel-connect - Open a remote shell on another node, or pipe a raw TCP service


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcitadel connect [peer|peer:port] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Two modes, selected by whether you give a port:

.PP
citadel connect           Open an interactive remote shell
  citadel connect :   Pipe a raw TCP service (stdin/stdout)

.PP
REMOTE SHELL (no port):
  Drops you into an interactive shell on the target node over the AceTeam
  Network mesh — collapsing the old multi-hop SSH chain
  (ssh a -> ssh b -> tmux) into a single command from any machine on the mesh.
  No host SSH config, no '.local' mDNS, no manual hops.

.PP
The target node must be running its terminal endpoint, which 'citadel work'
  starts by default (disable with --no-terminal). No token is needed: the node
  trusts your verified mesh-peer identity over the VPN (citadel #585). Repeated
  connects re-attach to the same live tmux-backed shell. A --token (or
  CITADEL_TERMINAL_TOKEN) is still accepted for the platform terminal path or
  when the target disables mesh trust.

.PP
RAW TCP (with port):
  Establishes a raw TCP connection to a service on the target and pipes
  stdin/stdout to it. Used internally by 'citadel ssh' as a ProxyCommand,
  and useful for testing connectivity or piping data through the network.

.PP
PEER IDENTIFICATION (both modes):
  - By hostname:  citadel connect gpu-node-1
  - By IP:        citadel connect 100.64.0.25
  - Interactive:  citadel connect  (prompts for peer and port, raw TCP)

.PP
The connection uses the tsnet userspace network, so it can reach peers
that system networking cannot.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for connect

.PP
\fB--terminal-port\fP=7860
	Terminal endpoint port on the target (remote-shell mode)

.PP
\fB--timeout\fP=0
	Connection timeout in seconds (0 = no timeout, raw-TCP mode)

.PP
\fB--token\fP=""
	Terminal auth token (remote-shell mode; OPTIONAL — mesh identity is trusted by default; or set CITADEL_TERMINAL_TOKEN)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--debug\fP[=false]
	Enable debug output

.PP
\fB--no-auto-update\fP[=false]
	Disable automatic update checks and installs for this run (or set CITADEL_NO_AUTO_UPDATE=1)

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	Disable colorized output


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
  # Open an interactive remote shell (by name or mesh IP)
  citadel connect gpu-node-1
  citadel connect 100.64.0.25

  # Remote shell with an explicit terminal token / port
  citadel connect gpu-node-1 --token tok_... --terminal-port 7860

  # Raw TCP: connect to a PostgreSQL server
  citadel connect gpu-node-1:5432

  # Raw TCP by IP address
  citadel connect 100.64.0.25:11434

  # Interactive mode - select peer and port (raw TCP)
  citadel connect
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcitadel(1)\fP
