.nh
.TH "CITADEL" "1" "Jan 2026" "AceTeam" "Citadel CLI Manual"

.SH NAME
citadel-run - Start services (all if no service specified, or a specific one)


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcitadel run [service] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Starts services and adds them to the manifest for tracking.

.PP
When a service name is provided, it is added to the manifest (if not already present)
and started. When no service is specified, all services in the manifest are started.

.PP
Use --restart to restart running services instead of starting fresh.

.PP
Note: For production use, consider 'citadel work' which starts services AND runs
the job worker in a single command.

.PP
Available services: llamacpp, lmstudio, ollama, vllm


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-d\fP, \fB--detach\fP[=true]
	Run in detached mode (background).

.PP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--force\fP[=false]
	Force recreate containers without prompting.

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for run

.PP
\fB-r\fP, \fB--restart\fP[=false]
	Restart services instead of starting fresh.


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--auth-service\fP="https://aceteam.ai"
	The URL of the authentication service

.PP
\fB--config\fP=""
	config file (default is $HOME/.citadel-cli.yaml)

.PP
\fB--debug\fP[=false]
	Enable debug output

.PP
\fB--nexus\fP="https://nexus.aceteam.ai"
	The URL of the AceTeam Nexus server


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
  # Start a specific service (adds to manifest)
  citadel run vllm

  # Start all services in the manifest
  citadel run

  # Restart all services
  citadel run --restart

  # Start in foreground mode
  citadel run ollama --detach=false

  # Recommended: Start services + worker together
  citadel work --mode=nexus
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcitadel(1)\fP
