.nh
.TH "CITADEL" "1" "Jul 2026" "AceTeam" "Citadel CLI Manual"

.SH NAME
citadel-services - List managed inference engines and their idle/usage status


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcitadel services [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Show the managed serving engines and catalog apps running on this node,
with a per-service usage signal: whether each is actively serving requests or
sitting idle (holding CPU/RAM/VRAM with no recent activity), how long it has
been idle, and its live resource footprint.

.PP
This is the operator-facing view of the idle-detection telemetry that rides the
node heartbeat (citadel #416). It answers "is anyone actually using this engine,
or is it pinning VRAM for nothing?" so you can safely reclaim a contended GPU.

.PP
Idle signal sources:
  - vLLM exposes Prometheus request counters, giving a precise last-request /
    idle-seconds signal.
  - Other engines (diffusers, ollama, ...) fall back to a CPU/GPU-utilization
    heuristic: quiet for long enough is reported as idle.
  - A service with no derivable signal is shown as "unknown" and is NEVER a
    candidate for auto-stop.

.PP
Auto-stop: OFF by default. Set SERVICE_AUTO_STOP_WHEN_IDLE=true (optionally
SERVICE_AUTO_STOP_IDLE_SECONDS=) on the node so 'citadel work' auto-stops a
service confirmed idle past the threshold. Candidates that WOULD be stopped are
flagged below.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for services


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--debug\fP[=false]
	Enable debug output

.PP
\fB--no-auto-update\fP[=false]
	Disable automatic update checks and installs for this run (or set CITADEL_NO_AUTO_UPDATE=1)

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	Disable colorized output


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcitadel(1)\fP
